sessions/Snowflake-100/101/03-creating-resources/README.md, before:

# Creating resources

You can either use worksheets in the GUI or execute SQL commands with the CLI tool SnowSQL, which we will come on to later.

## Resources overview

![Snowflake objects hierarchy](./assets/snowflake_objects_hierarchy.png "Snowflake objects hierarchy")


## Creating users [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-user.html)]

A 'user' is user identity recognised by Snowflake, whether associated with a real person or program.

In a new worksheet, try running:

    USE ROLE SECURITYADMIN;

This will change the role for your _current worksheet_ only.

Now we have adopted the security admin role, we can create users and roles.

    CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS JohnnyLawrence password='superSecretPass' default_role = PUBLIC must_change_password = true;

The Snowflake docs will provide a list of all arguments you can pass during user creation, for example including a user's email address, though the above is enough to get started.


## Create roles [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-role.html)]

Snowflake uses roles to control the objects (virtual warehouses, databases, tables, etc.) that users can access:
* Snowflake provides a set of predefined roles, as well as a framework for defining a hierarchy of custom roles.
* All Snowflake users are automatically assigned the predefined PUBLIC role, which enables login to Snowflake and basic object access.
* In addition to the PUBLIC role, each user can be assigned additional roles, with one of these roles designated as their default role. A user’s default role determines the role used in the Snowflake sessions initiated by the user; however, this is only a default. Users can change roles within a session at any time.
* Roles can be assigned at user creation or afterwards.

```
CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS DATA_CONSUMER COMMENT = 'Role to access raw data';
```

Take a look at all the system users and roles created so far:

List users:

    SHOW USERS;

List roles:

    SHOW ROLES;

> **IMPORTANT NOTE:** Objects are not case sensitive unless "quoted". See [Identifier Requirements](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/identifiers-syntax.html) for more info around case sensitivity and allowed characters in Snowflake

### Assigning a role to a user

    GRANT ROLE DATA_CONSUMER TO USER JohnnyLawrence;

## Create databases [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-database.html)]

To instantiate resources like databases, you must adopt the `SYSADMIN` role:

    USE ROLE SYSADMIN;
    CREATE DATABASE RAW_DATA;


To enable roles to access the database we must grant permissions:

    GRANT USAGE, CREATE SCHEMA ON DATABASE RAW_DATA TO DATA_CONSUMER;


## Create schemas [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-schema.html)]

    USE DATABASE RAW_DATA;
    CREATE SCHEMA SALES;

## Create tables [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-table.html)]

The format to create tables is:

    CREATE TABLE db_name.schame_name.table_name (col_1_name col_1_data_type, col_2_name col_1_data_type)

### Data Types [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/intro-summary-data-types.html)]

Snowflake supports most of the standard data types (strings, numbers, booleans, dates) as well as the VARIANT data type for semi-structured data and the GEOGRAPHY data type for geospatial data: [docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/intro-summary-data-types.html)

We will consume JSON data and so choose a single column of the Snowflake's special VARIANT type which allows importing and querying of semi-structured data.

    CREATE TABLE RAW_DATA.SALES.TRANSACTIONS (PAYLOAD VARIANT);

Commit message:

Add warehouse creation and grants to consumer roles

sessions/Snowflake-100/101/03-creating-resources/README.md, after:

# Creating resources

You can either use worksheets in the GUI or execute SQL commands with the CLI tool SnowSQL, which we will come on to later.

## Resources overview

![Snowflake objects hierarchy](./assets/snowflake_objects_hierarchy.png "Snowflake objects hierarchy")


## Creating users [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-user.html)]

A 'user' is user identity recognised by Snowflake, whether associated with a real person or program.

In a new worksheet, try running:

    USE ROLE SECURITYADMIN;

This will change the role for your _current worksheet_ only.

Now we have adopted the security admin role, we can create users and roles.

    CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS JohnnyLawrence password='superSecretPass' default_role = PUBLIC must_change_password = true;

The Snowflake docs will provide a list of all arguments you can pass during user creation, for example including a user's email address, though the above is enough to get started.


## Create roles [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-role.html)]

Snowflake uses roles to control the objects (virtual warehouses, databases, tables, etc.) that users can access:
* Snowflake provides a set of predefined roles, as well as a framework for defining a hierarchy of custom roles.
* All Snowflake users are automatically assigned the predefined PUBLIC role, which enables login to Snowflake and basic object access.
* In addition to the PUBLIC role, each user can be assigned additional roles, with one of these roles designated as their default role. A user’s default role determines the role used in the Snowflake sessions initiated by the user; however, this is only a default. Users can change roles within a session at any time.
* Roles can be assigned at user creation or afterwards.

```
CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS DATA_CONSUMER COMMENT = 'Role to access raw data';
```

Take a look at all the system users and roles created so far:

List users:

    SHOW USERS;

List roles:

    SHOW ROLES;

> **IMPORTANT NOTE:** Objects are not case sensitive unless "quoted". See [Identifier Requirements](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/identifiers-syntax.html) for more info around case sensitivity and allowed characters in Snowflake

### Assigning a role to a user

    GRANT ROLE DATA_CONSUMER TO USER JohnnyLawrence;

### Assigning a role to another role

We can create a role hierarchy by assigning roles to other roles.

    GRANT ROLE DATA_CONSUMER TO ROLE SYSADMIN;

This means that any user with the SYSADMIN role, is also able to switch to the DATA_CONSUMER role. 
However, JohnnyLawrence is only able to use the DATA_CONSUMER role.

## Virtual Warehouses

Warehouses provide a cluster of compute resource needed for querying your data. A default warehouse called `COMPUTE_WH` is created for us when we create the trial account. 
To allow the SYSADMIM role to use this warehouse, we will need to grant it the required permissions.

    GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE COMPUTE_WH TO ROLE SYSADMIN;

We can have warehouses of all different sizes to satisfy different use cases. Later we will create a seperate warehouse to be used for reporting. 

## Create databases [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-database.html)]

To instantiate resources like databases, you must adopt the `SYSADMIN` role:

    USE ROLE SYSADMIN;
    CREATE DATABASE RAW_DATA;


To enable roles to access the database we must grant permissions:

    GRANT USAGE, CREATE SCHEMA ON DATABASE RAW_DATA TO DATA_CONSUMER;


## Create schemas [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-schema.html)]

    USE DATABASE RAW_DATA;
    CREATE SCHEMA SALES;

## Create tables [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-table.html)]

The format to create tables is:

    CREATE TABLE db_name.schame_name.table_name (col_1_name col_1_data_type, col_2_name col_1_data_type)

### Data Types [[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/intro-summary-data-types.html)]

Snowflake supports most of the standard data types (strings, numbers, booleans, dates) as well as the VARIANT data type for semi-structured data and the GEOGRAPHY data type for geospatial data: [docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/intro-summary-data-types.html)

We will consume JSON data and so choose a single column of the Snowflake's special VARIANT type which allows importing and querying of semi-structured data.

    CREATE TABLE RAW_DATA.SALES.TRANSACTIONS (PAYLOAD VARIANT);
