sessions/Crafting-Code-100/README.md, before:

# Crafting Code 100

A collection of sessions to explore ways of improving the way we design and deliver our code, to save our future selves from a headache.

These sessions have been run previously over 2 hours, but can be easily adapted. More suggestions in the [Facilitators readme](./Resources/facilitators-README.md).

The earlier sessions are loosely-linked, so with an inexperienced group, it is best to start at [101](./101). For more experienced groups, you can pick and choose, but make sure they are grounded in the core concepts outlined in the earlier sessions.

As always, this is a work in progress, please feel free to comment and contribute!

## Sessions

- [101 - About Code Katas and TDD](./101/)
- [102 - TDD as if you meant it](./102/)
- [103 - Code Smells and Safe Refactorings](./103/)

## Potential Sessions

- DDD
- CRC Cards
- Mocking (don't mock all the things!)
- Outside In/Inside Out
- SOLID (an awareness of)
- OOP vs FP
- CUPID
- Tell, don't ask
- no ifs (declarative, over imperative)
- no keyboard (learn your IDE!)
- golden master
- saff-squeeze

Please feel free to [contribute](./CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## Useful resources

- [Scripts and Guides](./Resources/)
- [Code Smells](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring/smells)
- [Refactorings](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring/techniques)

---

## Credits

Thanks to everyone at [XPManchester](https://xpmanchester.wordpress.com/), where I learnt most of this initial content!

Commit message:

Crafting code sessions 104-6 (#356)
* adds mockist session

* wip

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* finished off 104-6

sessions/Crafting-Code-100/README.md, after:

# Crafting Code 100

A collection of sessions to explore ways of improving the way we design and deliver our code, to save our future selves from a headache.

These sessions have been run previously over 2 hours, but can be easily adapted. More suggestions in the [Facilitators readme](./Resources/facilitators-README.md).

The earlier sessions are loosely-linked, so with an inexperienced group, it is best to start at [101](./101). For more experienced groups, you can pick and choose, but make sure they are grounded in the core concepts outlined in the earlier sessions.

As always, this is a work in progress, please feel free to comment and contribute!

## Sessions

- [101 - About Code Katas and TDD](./101/)
- [102 - TDD as if you meant it](./102/)
- [103 - Code Smells and Safe Refactorings](./103/)
- [104 - Outside In/A Mockist Approach](./104/)
- [104 - Inside Out](./105/)
- [106 - Dealing with no Tests](./106/)

Note: It's particularly good to use the same kata for session 104 and 105, so we can focus on how the approaches differ.

## Potential Sessions

- DDD
- CRC Cards
- Mocking (don't mock all the things!)
- SOLID (an awareness of)
- OOP vs FP
- CUPID
- Tell, don't ask
- no ifs (declarative, over imperative)
- no keyboard (learn your IDE!)
- saff-squeeze

Please feel free to [contribute](./CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## Useful resources

- [Scripts and Guides](./Resources/)
- [Code Smells](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring/smells)
- [Refactorings](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring/techniques)

---

## Credits

Thanks to everyone at [XPManchester](https://xpmanchester.wordpress.com/), where I learnt most of this initial content!
